Okay.
So let's move on to our next component.
It's going to be the headline component.
Let's open up that component file in headline dot view.
And as a reminder, this is the component that appears on the front page that invites the user to apply
to a company.
And it uses a variety of action verbs right there that swap at a constant interval.
So you can remember that one of our action verbs, for example, is build.
I think another one is design.
I can scroll down here.
Will find them all.
Yep.
Build, create design code.
And we have an interval that swaps that word every 3 seconds.
All right, so let's convert this component to TypeScript, and then we're going to run into a couple
issues and we'll talk about how we can fix them.
So right here, I'm going to start by providing a lang of types, and right here I'm going to import
my defined component function.
And that's going to come from the top level view library.
And of course I have to utilize of that function.
So right here to find component provide that make sure to close it right here and we can see we start
to get a couple issues arising in this component.
Let's kind of tackle them from top to bottom.
So right here, as a reminder, we have a computed property called action classes and action classes
returns an object that we're binding to a class property up above to dynamically set the access class
that's being applied.
And so what we have is this, that action being referenced, which is the string right here, like build,
although it can be another one of those four strings that we see down below, then we are lower casing
that string and providing that as the property name set to true.
And of course each one of these four actions corresponds to a yes that's class.
Here they are.
And that applies the different color style to that action verb as it appears on the is your screen.
Then when we swap it to the next verb in 3 seconds, it applies a totally different yes class to it.
All right.
So whenever you're going to see Type two violations in a view component, a common reason why that's
going to happen is because the typescript inference didn't work exactly as it should have.
And in those scenarios, the simplest fix is to just explicitly and manually tell TypeScript the correct
type.
So, for example, if I hover my mouse over action classes, we can see the type the typescript inferred
or in other words, what it thinks it's working with.
So this might be a little bit of an unconventional syntax.
Notice before the colon, we have the square brackets and we have X colon number.
So that X is not a literal property with the name of X, that is just an arbitrary name that it's providing.
And what the syntax is trying to say is TypeScript thinks that we're going to have some kind of property.
It doesn't really matter what its actual value is, except it's going to be a number.
So that property is going to be a number and then its value is going to be a boolean.
So in other words, what TypeScript thinks we have here is going to look like this a property with a
numeric value set to a boolean like true.
This is what TypeScript thinks we have, but that's not necessarily true.
This that action is going to be a string in this case, let's say build two lowercase.
So our property type is still going to be a string rather than a number.
So TypeScript is simply not correctly inferring what we're going to have here.
So how can we solve this problem?
Well, we have to declare the correct type right here.
And in order to make this really easy to read, I'm just going to declare an interface up above that
I can then provide as the type of the return value of my action classes computed method.
So right here I'll define an interface.
I'll call it action classes.
And I'm going to use basically the exact same syntax that we have right here.
I'm going to use the square brackets, which indicates that this property can have whatever name we
want.
And I'm just going to use X as a generic placeholder because we need something in order to place the
call in syntax after the X to signify what is going to be the type of that property itself.
So what we're saying here when we do square brackets is we're not caring about the specific property
name.
Just make sure that it's of a certain type.
So here I'm going to say X just as an arbitrary placeholder.
And I'm going to say whatever property that is, it must be a string rather than a number.
So that's where I'm breaking, apart from this syntax down below.
The other half of it is going to be the same or correct because I want the properties value to be of
type boolean.
All right.
So what I'm saying here is we're going to have an object, and in the object are keys.
Whatever they are must be strings, and our values must be booleans.
And that is very similar to this, except this thinks that the properties must be numbers and the values
must be booleans.
So how do we connect this interface to this thing?
Pretty simple.
We provide the colon right here to specify the type of the return value.
And we're going to provide, of course, of action classes, interface from above.
And there we go.
We can see the problem goes way.
All right.
So that is one problem.
Down at the next problem we're going to encounter is in our before amount method.
This is an example of a lifecycle hook and it's going to run right before the component is removed from
the screen.
And as a reminder, what this does is it clears our interval.
Our interval is that thing that is keeping track of the 3/2 interval, at which point we want to change
the action verb on the view component.
And so when we remove our component from the screen, we want to make sure that we remove that time
or that ticker that's kind of going in the background because we don't want it to keep running and consuming
and taking up memory as we move on to other components that have nothing to do with the headline.
Right?
So what's the problem here?
If I hover my mouse over a clear interval, we'll see that clear interval in its typescript type definition
expects a handle parameter that is optional.
But if we provide that handle parameter, it should be of type number or undefined.
And another way of thinking about it is it must be either a number or we provide no value because remember
undefined is what is the default value whenever we don't provide anything for something like a parameter.
Right.
And what is the issue with this?
Well, the issue with this is clear interval expects a number are undefined, but this interval is something
that TypeScript thinks is null.
And it makes sense why it thinks it's now, because in our definition right here, we define it as null.
First, it's going to be null right here.
Then our hope is in the change title method.
We're going to replace it with an actual set interval return value.
Right?
And if you look at the type definition for say interval and you look at the right hand side of this
box that pops up, you can see that set interval returns a number and that's what we're setting for
this interval.
So in other words, we are going to provide clear interval with a number when this logic runs, when
this method executes.
But if this interval kicks off with an initial value of null and we feel null and declare interval,
that is not a valid value for clear interval because it can only be undefined or number.
Right?
NULL is not the same thing as undefined.
So right here to say the argument you're giving me by by this start interval, that argument could be
of type null and that type null is not assignable to the type that I expect for the parameter of clear
interval, which must be either number or undefined, either a number or basically undefined, which
means either the literal value, undefined or passing, and no argument at all when the function is
invoked.
All right.
So how are we going to fix this problem?
Well, what I'm going to do is I'm going to clarify to TypeScript that interval can now be either a
number or undefined.
So NULL isn't quite correct here because well, now is correct is it's the initial value.
But TypeScript is inference of this as being only now rather than as being some kind of absent value
or a number.
Eventually when set interval runs, this is the part attached.
It is not grasping because it's in a separate method and thus I have to communicate to it.
That interval does have the ability to be a number at some point in the program's execution.
So what I'm going to do is define an interface to describe the return value of this object that is returned
by my data method.
So right here, I'm going to define my new interface.
I'm going to call it data.
And we know that my object is going to have an action property and that is always going to be a string.
And it's also going to have an interval property.
And here, in order to make the type of interval match, the expected types that can flow into the clear
interval function right here.
I'm going to start off by giving it a type of either number or undefined.
So the way that we can say either or in TypeScript is we write our first type and then if we want to
say this or that, we provide a pipe.
So this vertical symbol on your keyboard, for me, it's right above my return key.
If you press shift, this means either or so right here I'm going to write number or undefined.
So what that basically means is interval can be either number or undefined.
All right.
Next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to provide that as the explicit return type of my data method.
I'm going to provide the data interface from up above.
And you can see TypeScript is immediately going to complain because it says, hey, interval, you told
me, can be either number or undefined, but you're actually telling me that intervals of type.
No now.
All right so now on undefined are kind of similar.
They're not exactly the same in JavaScript, but for the purposes of what this thing needs, it's going
to be just fine to replace null with undefined right here.
So now what TypeScript is going to say is you told me that interval is going to be either number or
undefined and then clear interval expects a argument of either number of undefined, which is exactly
what I know this that interval is because you told me it was going to be either number or undefined
as its type.
So now that matches up with what clear interval expects.
And I'm not going to complain anymore.
All right.
We have solved this problem right now.
There's a couple of caveats and a couple of things worth talking about here.
The first is this.
Remember, as I talked about earlier with clear interval, whenever we have something that is either
a type or another type of undefined, what that basically means is that the value is optional.
In other words, if we provide a value for interval, it can be either a number or we don't provide
anything for interval at all.
Because in JavaScript, whenever we access a property that does not exist on an object, the default
value for that will be undefined.
So what I'm trying to get to is an alternative way to write the syntax, instead of saying it's either
a number or undefined, is alternatively saying that interval is simply an optional property, that
my data object may have an interval property and if it is present it is going to be of type number,
right?
And that, you can see is still going to work right here because undefined is is the same thing as basically
not writing interval out at all.
So in other words, this syntax on line 34 is exactly the same as if I just simply didn't include interval
at all.
And you'll notice that if I comma this out, nothing will break below because writing number or undefined
is the exact same thing as making interval an optional property that happens to be a number.
All right.
You'll notice even if I hover my mouse over interval, it will say number or undefined, because that's
how JavaScript works if you don't provide a value.
In other words, if it's optional and you don't actually give it a valid value, it will fall back to
this kind of undefined keyword, undefined value that exists in the language.
So that is totally fine to do here.
And similarly right here, it is up to us as developers to decide which of these two syntactical options
we prefer.
We can either write interval with an explicit value of undefined, which is kind of weird and probably
not recommended in one in one sense of the term because we're saying Here's a property that kind of
doesn't exist.
We're kind of explicitly telling you that it doesn't have a concrete value.
It's undefined, right?
It's basically the same thing as simply leaving it out entirely.
However, one one advantage of explicitly stating that is that another reader can go to this component
and say, okay, so there is this property called interval in the data that is optional, that does
have some importance later because it's going to be used right here and now at least have an understanding
of my initial components data state, even if I understand that one of those properties is kind of this
weird a thing that's not quite has a, doesn't quite have a concrete value, it's undefined and it will
be populated a little bit later.
It's almost like saying this thing will have a valid number some point down the line later, but not
when the data method initializes.
So again, either approach is fine.
I would say that the overall JavaScript community would say that this is not good.
If something is going to be undefined, just leave it out entirely because it accomplishes the same
result for me.
I'm going to leave it in because I think it communicates to future readers what exactly represents and
anything that can help out somebody else in the future, in my mind, is worth the tradeoff of violating
some JavaScript best practice.
Right?
At the end of the day, it's the same tactical result, so language doesn't care.
So at that point, the best thing comes down to how effectively am I communicating what this is doing
to somebody else reading my code.
So I'm going to keep interval explicitly set to undefined.
We can see here that everything else is passing just fine, or at least no violations.
So let's go ahead and also update the test file.
So I'm going to open up headline that test that Jess dragged it to my right and right here, I'm going
to open my file Explorer and change the extension of that file to T.S..
There we go.
Looks like the only issue is on the import of the component.
We've seen this issue before.
All we have to do is make sure it has a dot view extension.
Sometimes view and TypeScript can't understand that it's not a typescript file, it's a view file because
by default TypeScript is going to look for a headline that's so you have to tell it its headline that
view instead.
Save that.
As I scroll down, it doesn't look like there are any other issues in this file, which clears me to
run the test itself.
Then PM run.
Test watch.
I'm going to run that.
And let's see if all of our headline tests pass and.
Drum roll.
Indeed they do.
All right.
So everything is looking good for headline.
And we have moved one more component to TypeScript and of course, encountered some new problems that
we had to fix along the way as well.
So to summarize, whenever you have TypeScript, make the wrong inference, whether it be about a computed
method or the data method, etc. What you can do is either define an inline type annotation or to keep
things a little bit cleaner, just define an interface above that final return value where you describe
the correct proper shape of that data.
So that TypeScript inference is replaced by your more explicit manual declaration, which of course
will help it understand that its original yes was not correct.
And it's going to eliminate the errors because now it has a better understanding of what it is that
it's actually working with.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.